add c++ solution to guard mark (gold) (#2808)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-494.mdx

---
id: usaco-494
source: Old Gold
title: Guard Mark
author: Ryan Chou
---
 
[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_guard_gold.html)

## Explanation

Note that since it might not always be optimal to keep the strongest/heaviest cow at the bottom of the stack, we have to go through every single possible subset, which is feasible with $N \leq 20$.

> example of a counter case:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of a counter case:
```

```
4 6
1 1000 4
1 1 5
3 2 3
3 3 3
```

Let's go through a dynamic programming approach.

#### States

We have to keep track of the cows that we're using ($mask$).

To check if we've surpassed Mark's height already and to return the result, we should also keep track of the current height ($h$) and the maximum safety factor achievable ($sf$).

> $\texttt{dp}[mask] =\{h, sf\}$

Reviewer 2: assigning $h$ and $sf$ and this line isn't necessary

#### Base Cases

With no cows, the safety factor will be infinite and the height will be zero.

#### Transitions

> $\texttt{dp}[mask] = \max_{j \in mask}(\texttt{dp}[mask],\hspace{0.1cm}\min(\texttt{dp}[prev] - weight_j,\hspace{0.1cm}strength_j))$

Reviewer 2: whats $prev$?

Reviewer: also don't use lovecraftian math formulas please

Author: err, i explain it in the next-next line

Author: ok one sec

> Such that $j =$ the $j$th cow and $weight_j,\hspace{0.1cm}strength_j$ represents the weight and strength of cow $j$ respectively.

Reviewer 2: what does this mean? why are there $j$ in both sides of the equation lol

This gets the maximum safety factor if we put cow $j$ at the top of our stack for every $j$. We have to take into account $strength_j$ and $\texttt{dp}[prev] - weight_j$ in the case that either one of the cows below can't sustain as much weight as cow $j$ can, or vice-versa.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(2^N \cdot N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

struct Cow {
	int height;
	int weight;
	int strength; 
};

int main() {
	freopen("guard.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("guard.out", "w", stdout);

	int n;
	int h;
	cin >> n >> h;

	vector<Cow> cows(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> cows[i].height >> cows[i].weight >> cows[i].strength;
	}

> 	// dp[i] = {height, safety factor}

Reviewer: it's been a while since i did this problem
is there only 1 height?

Author: ill rename for clarity

	vector<pair<int, int>> dp(1 << n);

	// initally we don't have any height, and we can add on infinite weight
	dp[0] = {0, INT32_MAX};

	for (int i = 1; i < (1 << n); i++) {
		dp[i] = {0, -1};

		for (int j = 0; j < n; j++) {
			// if the jth bit is on
			if (i & (1 << j)) {
				// update our height
				dp[i].first += cows[j].height;

				int prev = i ^ (1 << j);
				/*
				* maximum safety factor if we put cow j
				* at the top of our stack (account for j's strength as well)
				*/

> 				dp[i].second = max(dp[i].second,
>                                    min(dp[prev].second - cows[j].weight, cows[j].strength));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
					dp[i].second = max(
						dp[i].second,
						min(dp[prev].second - cows[j].weight, cows[j].strength)
					);
```

			}
		}
	}

> 	int ans = -1;

Reviewer: rename to `max_safety` maybe?

	for (int i = 1; i < (1 << n); i++) {
		if (dp[i].first >= h) {
			ans = max(dp[i].second, ans);
		}
	}

	// no tall enough/stable arrangement exists
	if (ans < 0) {
		cout << "Mark is too tall" << endl;
	} else {
		cout << ans << endl;

> 	}

Reviewer: ternary expression

Reviewer 3: I don't think ternary expressions can return different types

Reviewer: oh yeah, nvm

---
id: usaco-494
source: Old Gold
title: Guard Mark
author: Ryan Chou
---
 
[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_guard_gold.html)

## Explanation

Note that since it might not always be optimal to keep the strongest/heaviest cow at the bottom of the stack, we have to go through every single possible subset, which is feasible with $N \leq 20$.

Here's an example of a counter case:
```
4 6
1 1000 4
1 1 5
3 2 3
3 3 3
```

> Let's go through a dynamic programming approach.

Reviewer: something like
"hm bounds are 20"
"99% of the time that's bitmask dp so let's try that & see what happens"

Author: ok sure

#### States

> We have to keep track of the cows that we're using ($mask$).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's use a bitmask ($mask$) to keep track of the cows we're using.
```

To check if we've surpassed Mark's height already and to return the result, we should also keep track of the current height and the best safety factor we can get.

$\texttt{dp}[mask] =\{$current height, maximum safety factor achievable$\}$

> #### Base Cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Base Case
```

---
id: usaco-494
source: Old Gold
title: Guard Mark
author: Ryan Chou
---
 
[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_guard_gold.html)

## Explanation

Note that since it might not always be optimal to keep the strongest/heaviest cow at the bottom of the stack, we have to go through every single possible subset, which is feasible with $N \leq 20$.

Here's an example of a counter case:
```
4 6
1 1000 4
1 1 5
3 2 3
3 3 3
```

> 

Reviewer 2: a one sentence+ explanation would be nice even though it’s obvious

> Almost every time the bounds are ~$20$, it suggests bitmask DP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Almost every time the bounds are ~$20$, it suggests looping over subsets.
```

Let's go through the information we need to implement it!

#### States

> Let's use a bitmask ($mask$) to keep track of the cows we're using.

Reviewer 4: use `\texttt{}` for var names longer than 1 letter

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(2^N \cdot N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

struct Cow {
	int height;
	int weight;
	int strength; 
};

int main() {
	freopen("guard.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("guard.out", "w", stdout);

	int n;
	int h;
	cin >> n >> h;

	vector<Cow> cows(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> cows[i].height >> cows[i].weight >> cows[i].strength;
	}

	// dp[i] = {cumulative height, safety factor}
	vector<pair<int, int>> dp(1 << n);

	// initally we don't have any height, and we can add on infinite weight
	dp[0] = {0, INT32_MAX};

	for (int i = 1; i < (1 << n); i++) {
		dp[i] = {0, -1};

		for (int j = 0; j < n; j++) {
			// if the jth bit is on
			if (i & (1 << j)) {
				// update our height
				dp[i].first += cows[j].height;

				int prev = i ^ (1 << j);
				/*
				* maximum safety factor if we put cow j
				* at the top of our stack (account for j's strength as well)
				*/

> 					dp[i].second = max(
> 						dp[i].second,
> 						min(dp[prev].second - cows[j].weight, cows[j].strength)
> 					);

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
				dp[i].second = max(
					dp[i].second,
					min(dp[prev].second - cows[j].weight, cows[j].strength)
				);
```

---
id: usaco-494
source: Old Gold
title: Guard Mark
author: Ryan Chou
---
 
[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_guard_gold.html)

## Explanation

Note that since it might not always be optimal to keep the strongest/heaviest cow at the bottom of the stack, we have to go through every single possible subset, which is feasible with $N \leq 20$.

Here's an example of a counter case:
```
4 6
1 1000 4
1 1 5
3 2 3
3 3 3
```
(In this case, it's more optimal to take the last two cows instead!)

Almost every time the bounds are ~$20$, it suggests looping over subsets.

Let's go through the information we need to implement it!

#### States

Let's use a bitmask ($\texttt{mask}$) to keep track of the cows we're using.

> To check if we've surpassed Mark's height already and to return the result, we should also keep track of the current height and the best safety factor we can get.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To check if we've surpassed Mark's height already and if so, return the result, we should also keep track of the current height and the best safety factor we can get.
```
